WIP: Add 11.17 release notes (#309)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-08-13-mondoo-11.17-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.17-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.17 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.17 release of Mondoo, with Dockerfile security, all-new AWS security policies, and piles of new resources!
authors: [tim]
image: /img/releases/2024-08-07-mondoo-11.17-is-out/empty_state.png
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.17 is out! This release includes Dockerfile security, all-new AWS security policies, and piles of new resources!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

> ### Dockerfile Security policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New Dockerfile Security policy
```

> Secure your container workloads before they're running in production with our new Dockerfile Security policy. With automatic Dockerfile discovery for GitHub and GitLab and this new policy, you can evaluate the security of Dockerfiles no matter where they're hiding. Once you've secured your existing files, keep them secure with Dockerfile scanning in CI pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure your container workloads before they run in production with our new Dockerfile Security policy. With automatic Dockerfile discovery in GitHub and GitLab and this new policy, you can evaluate the security of Dockerfiles no matter where they're hiding. Once you've secured your existing files, keep them secure with Dockerfile scanning in CI pipelines.
```

![Dockerfile policy](/img/releases/2024-08-13-mondoo-11.17-is-out/dockerfile.png)

> ### CIS AWS Database Services Benchmark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New CIS AWS Database Services Benchmark policy
```

Keep your most valuable business data secure with the new CIS AWS Database Services benchmark policy. This policy includes security recommendations for Amazon's most popular database services:

- Amazon Aurora
- Amazon DynamoDB
- Amazon ElastiCache
- Amazon Neptune
- Amazon RDS
- Amazon Timestream

> ### Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) GuardDuty policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mew Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) GuardDuty policy
```

Make the most of AWS GuardDuty with our new Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) GuardDuty policy. This policy includes checks to ensure that GuardDuty is properly enabled and configured for EC2, EKS, IAM, Lambda, and S3 security.

> ### Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) IAM Access Analyzer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) IAM Access Analyzer policy
```

> Cloud security starts with securing access to critical resources and now with the Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) IAM Access Analyzer policy you can ensure that IAM Access Analyzer is enabled and properly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud security starts with securing access to critical resources. With the new Mondoo Amazon Web Services (AWS) IAM Access Analyzer policy you can now ensure that IAM Access Analyzer is enabled and properly configured.
```

### Infrastructure as Code (IaC) asset category

> Quickly evaluate the security of critical IaC code with a new Infrastructure as Code group in the Mondoo Console. This group includes Ansible, AWS Cloudformation, Kubernetes manifests, and Terraform assets under a single category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quickly evaluate the security of critical IaC files with the new Infrastructure as Code group in the Mondoo Console. This group includes Kubernetes manifests and Terraform, Ansible, and AWS CloudFormation  assets under a single category.
```

![IaC Category](/img/releases/2024-08-13-mondoo-11.17-is-out/iac_category.png)

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Newly certified CIS benchmark policies

Our CIS Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Oracle Linux, AlmaLinux, and Rocky Linux 9 policies are better than ever with updates to improve reliability and query output. Even better, these policies are now certified to pass the rigorous CIS benchmark validation process, so you can be confident they'll secure even the most complex enterprise Linux installations.

### Jump right to the point

> Now you find what you're looking for with fewer clicks thanks to improved linking behavior on affected assets pages. Links to assets now go directly to the asset result instead of the main asset page, so you can spend your time remediating findings instead of finding them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you find what you're looking for with fewer clicks thanks to improved linking behavior on affected assets pages. Links to assets now go directly to the asset result instead of the main asset page, so you can spend your time remediating findings instead of searching for them.
```

### Resource updates

#### aws.dynamodb.table

- New `items` field
- New `latestStreamArn` field

#### aws.elasticache

- New `serverlessCaches` field using the new `aws.elasticache.serverlessCache` resource

#### aws.guardduty.detector

- New `features` field
- New `findings` field using the new `aws.guardduty.finding` resource
- New `tags` field
- Improve performance fetching detector details

#### aws.iam.accessAnalyzer

- Renamed from `aws.accessAnalyzer` with backward compatibility for existing policies
- New `findings` field using the new `aws.iam.accessanalyzer.finding` resource

#### aws.iam.accessanalyzer.analyzer

- New `region` field
- Include organization-level analyzers as well as activated but unused analyzers

#### aws.neptune

- New resource for the AWS Neptune graph database
- `clusters` field using the new `aws.neptune.cluster` resource
- `instances` field using the new `aws.neptune.instance` resource

#### aws.rds

- New `allPendingMaintenanceActions` field using the new `aws.rds.pendingMaintenanceAction` resource
- Deprecate the `dbInstances` field in favor of a new `instances` field
- Deprecate the `dbClusters` field in favor of a new `clusters` field

> #### aws.rds.dbcluster / aws.rds.dbinstance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### aws.rds.dbcluster and aws.rds.dbinstance
```

- New `activityStreamMode` field
- New `activityStreamStatus` field
- New `certificateAuthority` field
- New `certificateExpiresAt` field
- New `enabledCloudwatchLogsExports` field
- New `iamDatabaseAuthentication` field
- New `monitoringInterval` field
- New `networkType` field
- New `preferredBackupWindow` field
- New `preferredMaintenanceWindow` field
- Improve performance fetching security groups details
- Don't include non-RDS engine results

#### aws.timestream.liveanalytics

- New resource with `databases` and `tables` fields

#### aws.vpc

- New `name` field

#### azure.subscription.cloudDefender

> - Check the pricing tier for the Servers plan when verifying if Azure's Defender for Servers is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the pricing tier for the Servers plan when verifying that Azure's Defender for Servers is enabled
```

#### microsoft.application

- New `certificates` field using the new `microsoft.keyCredential` resource
- New `createdAt` field
- New `description` field
- New `hasExpiredCredentials` field
- New `info` field
- New `name` field
- New `notes` field
- New `secrets` field using the new `microsoft.passwordCredential` resource
- New `tags` field

#### microsoft.group

- New `members` field

#### microsoft.user

- New `owners` field

#### product.eol

> Use this new resource to lookup end-of-life status for common products. Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this new resource to look up end-of-life status for common products. Example:
```

```coffee
cnquery> product(name: "php", version: "8.1").releaseCycle { * }
product.releaseCycle: {
  endOfLife: 2025-12-31 01:00:00 +0100 CET
  endOfExtendedSupport: 719528 days
  cycle: "8.1"
  lastReleaseDate: 2024-06-06 02:00:00 +0200 CEST
  name: ""
  link: "https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php"
  latestVersion: "8.1.29"
  endOfActiveSupport: 2023-11-25 01:00:00 +0100 CET
  firstReleaseDate: 2021-11-25 01:00:00 +0100 CET
}
```

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Fix a false negative result in the CIS Microsoft 365 policy's "Ensure a dynamic group for guest users is created" check.
- Add VPC name to asset overview information.
- Don't execute CIS Windows workstation benchmarks on server releases.
- Improve the default data returned by the `k8s.node` resource.

> - More concise compliance framework descriptions when adding new frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the Available Frameworks page, make compliance framework descriptions more concise.
```

> - Add an icon on policy pages for AWS Cloudformation policy variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add an AWS CloudFormation policy variant icon on policy pages.
```

- Fix missing risk factors in the affected assets views.
- Show the risk score instead of CVSS scores in asset CVE tables.

> - Allow sorting risk scores in tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow sorting by risk score in tables.
```

> - Fix Windows asset information not returning if WinRM is disabled on some Windows releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix Windows asset information not returning on some Windows releases if WinRM is disabled.
```
